Hello and welcome.
In this lecture we're gonna be getting a message through to our weapon instance such that it can print
out a log message so I've got sword equipped here that will print out a log message.
I go and attack this guy and you can see we get this weapon hit with the name of the weapon game object
showing up in the logs every time we hit.
That's an event coming from fighter down to the weapon.
Let's dive in and see how we can do that.
So the subject of this lecture is about trying to get this link to the current weapon instance.
Now let's go over to our fighter script.
This is where this is going to be happening.
And what we're saying here is we've got a current weapon which is actually a current weapon conflicts.
Let's go ahead and rename that straightaway current weapon config.
And we also want to have a link to the actual current weapon.
So it's gonna be a type weapon called current weapon.
Now the lazy value in the current weapon conflict makes me think maybe we need a lazy value for our
current weapon as well.
And I'm not hundred percent sure about that so let's talk it through.
Let's think about the use cases.
So where do we read these two variables.
Well potentially in public methods.
So they could be read from in start.
That's a problem.
If we were to initialize them and start what happens if we were to make them happen before start What
if we were to set them up in a wake.
Well the problem there is that we are doing some spawning in response to this from a potentially calling
to other things as we see in our attach weapon attach weapon calls out to an animator for example and
it uses a spawner here.
So no good doing it in a wake because we're not allowed to call out to other components like the animator.
So the other option that gives us now is to use a lazy value.
But one thing I would like to point out is that actually the current weapon config could be set without
doing attach weapon.
So what I'm gonna do is I'm actually going to remove the lazy value for the time being from the current
weapon config and instead do the following will do in starts instead of doing a force in it at this
we're gonna do attach weapon of the current weapon.
So we'll make sure the current weapons attach the current weapons already been attached to be attached
the second time it's not actually a problem and we want to make sure that's attach for the current weapon
conflict not the current weapon and then what we've got to do is in a wake where instead of setting
lazy value to current weapon conflict we could just set it to the default weapon and that is fine.
Actually that doesn't require as a lazy value could have done that earlier but that's okay.
But what does require a lazy value is our current weapon because in order to have the current weapon
we have to have attached and spawned it.
So that does require us to have a lazy value because we need to do that with the animator.
Okay.
Well that then we.
We have now that we have asserted that we definitely leave the lazy value for our current weapon instance.
We can wrap that in a lazy value and set that up in a wake.
So we'll do current weapon in a week equals a new lazy value of type weapon and then we want to give
it and set up a default weapon but s default weapon currently concerns and returns a weapon configured
where it wants it to return a weapon in order for it to set the default value of our current weapon.
So it is going to attach the default weapon but the question here is what's it actually going to return.
How is it going to have that weapon to return.
Well the problem is attach weapon calls to spawn and spawn at the moment doesn't return anything.
So little mini challenge for you is to switch over from spawn returning void to spawn returning the
weapon that we actually instantiate here.
So the way I'm going to do this is by this variable is currently within the if statement so I can't
return it down at the bottom here which is where I would like to return the weapon.
So what I've got to do is I've got to pull this weapon out to the top level the top scope of my function
and it's going to be defaulted to.
No.
Because if we don't default to know when we've got no equipped prefab and we don't spawn anything then
we are going to end up with nothing.
So there's nothing to return.
So it will be defaults to now I'm just making that explicit.
So now that the spawn returns something and returns the actual weapon we can make attach weapon itself
return the weapon instance that was spawned which just means it returning returning it and changing
the return type and now where we use attach weapon we need to make sure that we also set it.
So I'm going to go and find the first place we use it in setup default weapon.
So we're going to use that as the return value for set up default weapon and then also let's have a
look.
We want when we are equipping the weapon we want to make sure that we set our current weapon don't value
equal to attach weapon.
And I want to point out that in a couple of places we're still using the current weapon Conficker dot
value and that we don't want.
We just want to switch that back over to current weapon conflict because we've removed the lazy value
wrapper from the current weapon conflicts and just cannot replace that threw out this file.
OK.
So now let's just check.
This is going to make sense.
The one concern I have is that in starts we are doing attach weapon.
We actually can now just do current weapon dot force in it which is going to do an attach weapon of
the default but not if this has already been set.
And that's important because we may have overridden the default weapon when we do restore.
So this was something that worried me in setup default weapon is that we are attaching the default weapon
here.
And what happens if that weapon has been changed.
So that is going to be fine because this won't be called in start.
If that weapon has changed or it will be overridden in our restore.
So hopefully this is now going to give us what we want which is to have a weapon reference such as Go
and check in unity that things are going to compile and can go ahead and hit play.
I would expect my sword to appear in this case I already have a save file if I go ahead and delete my
save file.
They will get just deleted and let's go back into unity.
Reset
so let's just check my default weapon.
Yes.
Is the fireball I can pick up a sword equipped.
I can pick up a bow.
Let's just check as I go between levels that it restores correctly as we'd expect to go between level
and I appear with my bow in hand and go back so that all seems to be working correctly and I can use
the bow hopefully to attack this guy.
Okay so that's cool.
We just want to make sure that we can use that reference to the weapon now.
And I want to do that by forwarding on this hit event to our weapon instance now I am going to do this
regardless of whether it's a projectile weapon or it is a normal just take instant damage weapon and
we do have to check that we actually have a weapon instance because some weapons don't have a weapon
instance like the fireball does not.
There's no actual weapon in the hand.
So what we're gonna do is we can check that the current weapon of value is not equal to now make sure
is that you're checking the current wealth and value because we check current weapon directly.
Then things don't work.
It will be always true.
So then we can do current weapon dot value dot on hit and this will trigger an on hit event which if
we go and have a look currently does nothing.
So let's just make it print something out and we're going to print out a message that includes the name
of this game object.
So it's going to be weapon hit plus the game object don't name and then semicolon at the end of the
line if we go ahead and hit play then I want to see is that with my bow I would be getting hit when
the arrow is fired off like so I'm getting the weapon hit weapon because all our weapons get renamed
to the same thing.
So I also want to check that the fireball does not generate a weapon hit because it is a weapon without
an equipped weapon.
So I'm going to go over to delete my save file and start off with my fireball again from scratch and
if I go and attack this guard with my fireball so he attacks me there's no weapon damage log and I attack
him and there's no weapon damage not because there is no weapon prefab calls out in this lecture we
have got a link from fighter to the currently equipped weapon that we can use to trigger hit events
on that particular weapon in the next lecture we're going to get the audio in place for that weapon.
See that.